Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
Ifill: TONIGHT, AN EXCLUSIVE
INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA
AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
Woodruff: WE DISCUSS THE
POTENTIAL FOR MILITARY ACTION IN
SYRIA.
WE DO HAVE TO MAKE SURE IS
THAT WHEN COUNTRIES BREAK
INTERNATIONAL NORMS ON WEAPONS
LIKE CHEMICAL WEAPONS THAT COULD
THREATEN US, THAT THEY ARE HELD
ACUNTACOBLE.
Ifill: AND WE GET HIS TAKE ON
RACE RELATIONS IN AMERICA,
FOLLOWING HIS SPEECH AT THE
LINCOLN MEMORIAL TODAY, 50 YEARS
AFTER THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
NO ONE CAN MATCH KING'S
BRILLIANCE BUT THE SAME FLAME
CAN LIGHT THE HEART OF ALL WHO
ARE WILLING TO TAKE A FIRST STEP
TOWARDS JUSTICE.
I KNOW THAT FLAME REMAINS.
Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
Ifill: THERE WAS A FLURRY OF
ACTIVITY AROUND THE WORLD TODAY
ON WHAT HAPPENS NEXT IN SYRIA.
AT THE UNITED NATIONS, BRITAIN
SUBMITTED A RESOLUTION TO THE
SECURITY COUNCIL CONDEMNING
SYRIA FOR AN ALLEGED CHEMICAL
ATTACK, AND AUTHORIZING THE USE
OF FORCE IN RESPONSE.
THE U.N. ENVOY TO SYRIA, LAKHDAR
BRAHIMI, WARNED ANY MILITARY
ACTION MUST HAVE THE WORLD
BODY'S APPROVAL.
BUT RUSSIA AND CHINA APPEARED
LIKELY TO USE THEIR VETOES, AS
THEY HAVE ON PREVIOUS SYRIA
RESOLUTIONS.
IN TURN, U.S. OFFICIALS MADE
CLEAR THAT PLANS FOR A POSSIBLE
MILITARY STRIKE ARE CONTINUING--
WITH OR WITHOUT U.N. APPROVAL.
AND IN SYRIA, U.N. INSPECTORS
RETURNED TO THE SITE OF THE
ALLEGED GASSING, PROTECTED BY
REBELS.
THE U.N. SECRETARY-GENERAL SAID
THEY NEED FOUR TO FIVE DAYS TO
FINISH, BUT  THE ASSAD REGIME
DEMANDED THEY ALSO INVESTIGATE
CHEMICAL ATTACKS BY REBEL
FORCES.
THIS WAS HOW THINGS STOOD WHEN
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAT DOWN WITH
JUDY AND ME AT THE WHITE HOUSE A
SHORT TIME AGO.
HELLO, MR. PRESIDENT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
Woodruff: AND WELCOME TO
THE "NEWSHOUR."
GREAT TO BE HERE.
Woodruff: MR. PRESIDENT,
YOU'VE JUST COME FROM MAKING A
SPEECH CELEBRATING A FLAWN
VIOLENT EVENT, THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON, MARTIN LUTHER KING'S
SPEECH 50 YEARS AGO.
WE'RE GOING TO GET TO THAT IN
JUST A MOMENT BUT FIRST WE WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT A PLACE WHERE
THERE'S BEEN TOO MUCH VIOLENCE,
SYRIA.
HOW CLOSE ARE YOU THO AUTHORIZE,
A MILITARY STRIKE AND CAN YOU
ASSURE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT
BY DOING SO, GIVEN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN, THAT THE UNITED
STATES WILL NOT GET BOGGED DOWN
IN YET ANOTHER WAR HALFWAY
AROUND THE WORLD?
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I HAVE
NOT MADE A DECISION.
I HAVE GOTTEN OPTIONS FROM OUR
MILITARY, HAD EXTENSIVE
DISCUSSIONS WITH MY NATIONAL
SECURITY TEAM, SO LET ME TALK
ABOUT WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE.
I THINK WE ALL UNDERSTAND
TERRIBLE THINGS HAVE BEEN
HAPPENING IN SYRIA FOR QUITE
SOME TIME, THAT THE ASSAD REGIME
THERE HAS BEEN KILLING ITS OWN
PEOPLE BY THE TENS OF THOUSANDS,
THAT THERE ARE SECTARIAN
ARGUMENTS THAT HAVE SPILLED OVER
INTO BLOODSHED, AND HAVE
ESCALATED OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS.
AND ALTHOUGH WHAT'S HAPPENED
THERE IS TRAGIC, ANDIL ANDING AH
I HAVE CALLED FOR ASSAD TO LEAVE
AND MAKE SURE WE HAVE A
TRANSITIONAL GOVERNMENT THAT
COULD BE INCLIEWS 95 SYRIA, WHAT
I'VE ALSO CONCLUDED IS
ENGAGEMENT AND INVOLVE ENEMY SIR
WAR IN SYRIA WOULD NOT HELP THE
SITUATION ON THE GROUND.INED,
AND HAVE BEEN PROVIDING A LOT OF
HUMANITARIAN AID TO PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN DISPLACED BY THE WAR.
BUT WHAT I ALSO SAID WAS THAT IF
THE ASSAD REGIME USED CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ON HIS OWN PEOPLE, THAT
THAT WOULD CHANGE SOME OF OUR
CALCULATIONS, AND THE REASON HAS
TO DO WITH NOT ONLY
INTERNATIONAL NORMS BUT ALSO
AMERICA'S CORE SELF-INTERESTS.
WE'VE GOT A SITUATION IN WHICH
YOU'VE GOT A WELL-ESTABLISHED
INTERNATIONAL NORM AGAINST THE
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
SYRIA HAS ONE OF THE LARGEST
STOCKPILES IN THE WORLD OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THIS IS A VOLATILE COUNTRY IN A
VERY VOLATILE REGION.
WE'VE GOT ALLIES BORDERING SYR
SYRIA.
TURKEY IS A NATO ALLY.
JORDAN, A CLOSE FRIEND THAT WE
WORK WITH A LOT.
ISRAEL IS VERY CLOSE BY.
WE'VE GOT BASES THROUGHOUT THE
REGION.
WE CANNOT SEE A BREACH OF THE
NONPROLIFERATION NORM THAT
ALLOWS POTENTIALLY CHEMICAL
WEAPONS TO FALL INTO THE HANDS
OF ALL KINDS OF FOLKS.
SO WHAT I'VE SAID IS THAT WE
HAVE NOT YET MADE A DECISION,
BUT THE INTERNATIONAL NORM
AGAINST THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS NEEDS TO BE KEPT IN
PLACE, AND NOBODY DISPUTES-- OR
HARDLY ANYBODY DISPUTES -- THAT
QEMS WERE USED ON A LARGE SCALE
IN SYRIA AGAINST CIVILIAN
POPULATIONS.
WE HAVE LOOKED AT ALL THE
EVIDENCE, AND WE DO NOT BELIEVE
THE OPPOSITION POSSESSED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS OF THAT SORT.
WE DO NOT BELIEVE, GIVEN THE
DELIVERY SYSTEM-- USING ROCKETS
THAT THE OPPOSITION COULD HAVE
CARRIED OUT THESE ATTACKS.
WE HAVE CONCLUDED THAT THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT IN FACT
CARRIED IT OUT, AND IF THAT'S
SO, THERE NEED TO BE
INTERNATIONAL CONSEQUENCE.
SO WE ARE CONSULTING WITH OUR
ALLIES.
WE ARE CONSULTING WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY, AND,
YOU KNOW, I HAVE NO INTEREST IN
ANY KIND OF OPEN-ENDED CONFLICT
IN SYRIA BUT WE COHAVE TO MAKE
SURE THAT WHEN COUNTRIES BREAK
INTERNATIONAL NORMS ON WEAPONS
LIKE CHEMICAL WEAPON THAT'S
WOULD THREATEN US THAT THEY ARE
HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
Woodruff: MR. PRESIDENT,
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, WHAT HAS
IT ACCOMPLISHED.
THE SIGNALS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ARE GETTING IS THIS WOULD BE A
LIMITED STRIKE OVER LIMITED
DURATION.
IF IT'S NOT GOING TO DO THAT
MUCH HARM TO THE ASSAD REGIME
WHAT, HAVE YOU ACCOMPLISHED?
WHAT'S CHANGED?
AGAIN, I HAVE NOT MADE A
DECISION, BUT I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT IF IN FACT WE
MAKE A CHOICE TO HAVE
REPERCUSSIONS FOR THE USE OF
CHEMICA WEAPONS, THEN THE ASSAD
REGIME, WHICH IS INVOLVED IN A
CIVIL WAR TRYING TO PROTECT
ITSELF, WILL HAVE RECEIVED A
PRETTY STRONG SIGNAL THAT IN
FACT IT BETTER NOT DO IT AGAIN.
AND THAT DOESN'T SOLVE ALL THE
PROBLEMS INSIDE OF SYRIA.
AND, YOU KNOW, IT DOESN'T,
OBVIOUSLY, END THE DEATH OF
INNOCENT CIVILIANS INSIDE OF
SYRIA.
AND WE HOPE THAT IN FACT
ULTIMATELY A POLITICAL
TRANSITION CAN TAKE PLACE INSIDE
OF SYRIA, AND WE'RE PREPARED TO
WORK WITH ANYBODY IT'S RUSSIANS
AND OTHERS -- TO TRY TO BRING
THE PARTIES TOGETHER TO RESOLVE
THE CONFLICT.
BUT WE WANT THE ASSAD REGIME
TOND THAT BY USE, CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ON A LARGE SCALE AGAINST
YOUR OWN PEOPLE, AGAINST WOMEN,
AGAINST INFANTS, AGAINST
CHILDREN, THAT YOU ARE NOT ONLY
BREAKING INTERNATIONAL NORMS ASK
STANDARDS OF DECENCY, BUT YOU'RE
ALSO CREATING A SITUATION WHERE
U.S. NATIONAL INTERESTS ARE
AFFECTED.
AND THAT NEEZ TO STOP.
Ifill: MR. PRESIDENT, WITH
ALL OF THE MAYHEM IN THE MIDDLE
EAST INVOLVING ALLIES LIKE
ISRAEL AND JORDAN AND REFUGEES
ON THE BORDER AND POTENTIAL
ACTION IN SYRIA AND THE COLLAPSE
OF THE GOVERNMENT IN EGYPT, DO N
ARAB SPRING?
WELL, I DON'T-- I THINK WE
ANTICIPATED THIS WOULD BE A
REALLY DIFFICULT PROCESS.
I MEAN, YOU'VE GOT A REGION THAT
FOR DECADES HAS BASICALLY BEEN
UNDER AUTOCRATIC RULE, AND
PEOPLE HAD BEEN SUPPRESSED AND
THERE WERE NO TRADITIONS OF
CIVIL SOCIETY.
POLITICAL FREEDOM.
THERE WERE NO TRADITIONS OF
AND THEN SUDDENLY, FOLKS ARE
POLITICAL FREEDOM.
ALLOWED TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES,
AND THEN SUDDENLY, FOLKS ARE
BUT A LOT OF THEIR ORGANIZING
ALLOWED TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES,
PRINCIPLES END UP BEING AROUND
BUT A LOT OF THEIR ORGANIZING
EXTREMIST AGENDAS IN SOME CASES,
PRINCIPLES END UP BEING AROUND
MORE MODERATE FORCES SOMETIMES
EXTREMIST AGENDAS IN SOME CASES,
HAVEN'T YET GOTTEN THEIR ACT
MORE MODERATE FORCES SOMETIMES
TOGETHER.
HAVEN'T YET GOTTEN THEIR ACT
SO WE ANTICIPATED THAT THIS WAS
TOGETHER.
GOING TO BE A VERY DIFFICULT
SO WE ANTICIPATED THAT THIS WAS
PATH.
GOING TO BE A VERY DIFFICULT
WE'RE NOT SURPRISED BY IT.
PATH.
THE ONE THING, THOUGH, MAYBE
WE'RE NOT SURPRISED BY IT.
IMPLICIT IN YOUR QUESTION, GWEN
THE ONE THING, THOUGH, MAYBE
SSOME SUGGESTION THAT THERE WAS
IMPLICIT IN YOUR QUESTION, GWEN
SOMETHING WE COULD DO--
SSOME SUGGESTION THAT THERE WAS
Ifill: THAT WAS IMPLICIT IN
SOMETHING WE COULD DO--
MY QUESTION, YES.
Ifill: THAT WAS IMPLICIT IN
AND I THINK IF THE IDEA IS
MY QUESTION, YES.
THAT WHAT WE SHOULD HAVE DONE IS
AND I THINK IF THE IDEA IS
DONE POPULAR TO SHORE UP
THAT WHAT WE SHOULD HAVE DONE IS
AUNTOCRATTIC GOVERNMENTS, THAT
DONE POPULAR TO SHORE UP
WE SHOULD HAVE STOOD BY WHILE
AUNTOCRATTIC GOVERNMENTS, THAT
GOVERNMENTS THAT WE HAD
WE SHOULD HAVE STOOD BY WHILE
RELATIONSHIPS WITH KILLED THEIR
GOVERNMENTS THAT WE HAD
OWN PEOPLE, PEACEFUL, INNOCENT
RELATIONSHIPS WITH KILLED THEIR
PROTESTERS, THEN I SUSPECT YOU'D
OWN PEOPLE, PEACEFUL, INNOCENT
HAVE A DIFFERENT SET OF
PROTESTERS, THEN I SUSPECT YOU'D
QUESTIONS FOR ME.
HAVE A DIFFERENT SET OF
AND SO WE DON'T HAVE GOOD
QUESTIONS FOR ME.
OPTIONS,GREAT OPTIONS FOR THE
AND SO WE DON'T HAVE GOOD
REGION.
OPTIONS,GREAT OPTIONS FOR THE
BUT WHAT I AM CLEAR ABOUT IS
REGION.
THAT IF THE UNITED STATES STANDS
BUT WHAT I AM CLEAR ABOUT IS
BY ITS CORE VALUES AND ITS CORE
THAT IF THE UNITED STATES STANDS
INTERESTS, IF WE'RE VERY CLEAR
BY ITS CORE VALUES AND ITS CORE
ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE
INTERESTS, IF WE'RE VERY CLEAR
STOPPING TERRORIST ATTACKS
ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT WE'RE
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES, IF WE
STOPPING TERRORIST ATTACKS
ARE VERY CAREER ABOUT OUR
AGAINST THE UNITED STATES, IF WE
COMMITMENT TO THE SAFETY AND
ARE VERY CAREER ABOUT OUR
SECURITY OF ISRAEL, IF WE ARE
COMMITMENT TO THE SAFETY AND
CLEAR ABOUT THE FREE FLOW OF
SECURITY OF ISRAEL, IF WE ARE
ENTIRETHROUGHOUT THE REGION
CLEAR ABOUT THE FREE FLOW OF
GLOBAL ECONOMY, BUT ALSO IF
ENTIRETHROUGHOUT THE REGION
WE'RE CLEAR ABOUT OUR VALUES AND
GLOBAL ECONOMY, BUT ALSO IF
THAVALUES ANDTHAT WE BELIEVE INE
WE'RE CLEAR ABOUT OUR VALUES AND
GOVERNMENT, MINORITY RIGHTSs,
THAVALUES ANDTHAT WE BELIEVE INE
WE BELIEVE IN WOMEN'S RIGHTS, WE
GOVERNMENT, MINORITY RIGHTSs,
BELIEVE OVER TIME IT'S BETTER
WE BELIEVE IN WOMEN'S RIGHTS, WE
FOR GOVERNMENTS TO BE
BELIEVE OVER TIME IT'S BETTER
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WILL OF
FOR GOVERNMENTS TO BE
THEIR PEOPLE AS OPPOSED TO
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WILL OF
BEING, YOU KNOW, DICTATED TO BY
THEIR PEOPLE AS OPPOSED TO
AUTHORITARIAN GOVERNMENTS.
BEING, YOU KNOW, DICTATED TO BY
IF WE ARE CONSISTENT IN THOSE
AUTHORITARIAN GOVERNMENTS.
PRINCIPLES, THEN EVENTUALLY, I
IF WE ARE CONSISTENT IN THOSE
THINK, WE WILL BE BETTER OFF.
PRINCIPLES, THEN EVENTUALLY, I
BUT IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE
THINK, WE WILL BE BETTER OFF.
FLOTGOING TO HAVE SOME VERY
BUT IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE
DIFFICULT PROBLEMS IN THE
FLOTGOING TO HAVE SOME VERY
MEANTIME.
DIFFICULT PROBLEMS IN THE
Ifill: I DO HAVE ONE MORE
MEANTIME.
BRIEF QUESTION ABOUT SYRIA.
Ifill: I DO HAVE ONE MORE
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO LOOK
BRIEF QUESTION ABOUT SYRIA.
AT THIS AND SAY WHY ARE WE
TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO LOOK
GETTING INVOLVED?
AT THIS AND SAY WHY ARE WE
HOW DO YOU JUSTIFY TAKING ACTION
GETTING INVOLVED?
EYE KNOW YOU TALKED ABOUT
HOW DO YOU JUSTIFY TAKING ACTION
INTERNATIONAL NORMS-- BECAUSE OF
EYE KNOW YOU TALKED ABOUT
CHEMICAL WEAPON USE AND NOT THE
INTERNATIONAL NORMS-- BECAUSE OF
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
CHEMICAL WEAPON USE AND NOT THE
KILLED, THE 2 MILLION REFUGEES
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WHO FLED ACROSS THE BORDER.
KILLED, THE 2 MILLION REFUGEES
WHAT'S HAPPENED HAS BEEN
WHO FLED ACROSS THE BORDER.
HEARTBREAKING, BUT WHEN YOU
WHAT'S HAPPENED HAS BEEN
START TALKING ABOUT CHEMICAL
HEARTBREAKING, BUT WHEN YOU
WEAPONS IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS
START TALKING ABOUT CHEMICAL
THE LARGEST STOCKPILE OF
WEAPONS IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN THE WORLD,
THE LARGEST STOCKPILE OF
WHERE OVER TIME, THEIR CONTROL
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN THE WORLD,
OVER CHEMICAL WEAPONS MAY, RODE,
WHERE OVER TIME, THEIR CONTROL
WHERE THEY'RE ALLIED TO KNOWN
OVER CHEMICAL WEAPONS MAY, RODE,
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS THAT IN
WHERE THEY'RE ALLIED TO KNOWN
THE PAST HAVE TARGETED THE
TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS THAT IN
UNITED STATES, THEN THERE IS A
THE PAST HAVE TARGETED THE
PROSPECT, A POSSIBILITY IN WHICH
UNITED STATES, THEN THERE IS A
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THEY CAN HAVE
PROSPECT, A POSSIBILITY IN WHICH
DEVASTATING EFFECTS, COULD BE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THEY CAN HAVE
DIRECTED AT US.
DEVASTATING EFFECTS, COULD BE
AND TWEE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
DIRECTED AT US.
THAT DOES NOT HAPPEN.
AND TWEE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE'S A REASON WHY THERE'S AN
THAT DOES NOT HAPPEN.
INTERNATIONAL NORM AGAINST
THERE'S A REASON WHY THERE'S AN
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
INTERNATIONAL NORM AGAINST
THERE'S A REASON WHY
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
CONSISTENTLY, YOU KNOW, THE
THERE'S A REASON WHY
RULES OF WAR HAVE SUGGESTED THAT
CONSISTENTLY, YOU KNOW, THE
THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
RULES OF WAR HAVE SUGGESTED THAT
VIOLATES GENEVA PROTOCOLS.
THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
SO THEY'RE DIFFERENT, AND WE
VIOLATES GENEVA PROTOCOLS.
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE
SO THEY'RE DIFFERENT, AND WE
NOT LOOSE IN A WAY THAT
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE
ULTIMATELY COULD AFFECT OUR
NOT LOOSE IN A WAY THAT
SECURITY AND IF IN FACT WE CAN
ULTIMATELY COULD AFFECT OUR
TAKE LIMITED, TAILORED
SECURITY AND IF IN FACT WE CAN
APPROACHES-- NOT GETTING DRAWN
TAKE LIMITED, TAILORED
SKY LONG CONFLICT, NOT A
APPROACHES-- NOT GETTING DRAWN
REPETITION OF IRAQ, WHICH I KNOW
SKY LONG CONFLICT, NOT A
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE WORRIED
REPETITION OF IRAQ, WHICH I KNOW
ABOUT, BUT IF WE ARE SAYING IN A
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE WORRIED
CLEAR AND DECISIVE BUT VERY
ABOUT, BUT IF WE ARE SAYING IN A
LIMITED WAY WE SEND A SHOT
CLEAR AND DECISIVE BUT VERY
ACROSS THE BOW SAYING STOP DOING
LIMITED WAY WE SEND A SHOT
THIS, THAT CAN HAVE A POSITIVE
ACROSS THE BOW SAYING STOP DOING
EFFECT ON OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
THIS, THAT CAN HAVE A POSITIVE
OVER THE LONG TERM AND MAY HAVE
EFFECT ON OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
A POSITIVE IMPACT IN THE SENSE
OVER THE LONG TERM AND MAY HAVE
THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS ARE NOT
A POSITIVE IMPACT IN THE SENSE
USED AGAIN ON INNOCENT
THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS ARE NOT
CIVILIANS.
USED AGAIN ON INNOCENT
Woodruff: LET'S TURN BACK
CIVILIANS.
TO WHERE YOU WERE EARLIER THIS
Woodruff: LET'S TURN BACK
AFTERNOON,LET MARTIN LUTHER KING
TO WHERE YOU WERE EARLIER THIS
ANNIVERSARY OF HIS "I HAVE A
AFTERNOON,LET MARTIN LUTHER KING
DREAM" SPEECH, THE ANNIVERSARY
ANNIVERSARY OF HIS "I HAVE A
OF THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
DREAM" SPEECH, THE ANNIVERSARY
YOU HAVE A REPUTATION,
OF THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
MR. PRESIDENT, FOR BEING PRETTY
YOU HAVE A REPUTATION,
COOL AND DETACHED, BUT STANDING
MR. PRESIDENT, FOR BEING PRETTY
THERE AT THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL,
COOL AND DETACHED, BUT STANDING
AT THE PLACE WHERE DR. KING
THERE AT THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL,
STOOD, LOOKING OUT OVER THAT BIG
AT THE PLACE WHERE DR. KING
CROWD, THAT HAD TO BE EMOTIONAL.
STOOD, LOOKING OUT OVER THAT BIG
WHAT-- WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?
CROWD, THAT HAD TO BE EMOTIONAL.
WELL, THERE WERE A COUPLE OF
WHAT-- WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?
THINGS I WAS THINKING.
WELL, THERE WERE A COUPLE OF
CERTAINLY, LEADING UP TO THE
THINGS I WAS THINKING.
SPEECH I WAS THINKING YOU
CERTAINLY, LEADING UP TO THE
GENERALLY SHOULD NOT TRY TO
SPEECH I WAS THINKING YOU
FOLLOW ONE OF THE TWO GREATEST
GENERALLY SHOULD NOT TRY TO
SPEECHES IN AMERICAN HISTORY
FOLLOW ONE OF THE TWO GREATEST
BECAUSE IT PUTS A LITTLE
SPEECHES IN AMERICAN HISTORY
PRESSURE ON YOU.
BECAUSE IT PUTS A LITTLE
BUT MOST OF ALL, WHAT I WAS
PRESSURE ON YOU.
THINKING ABOUT WAS JUST WHAT I
BUT MOST OF ALL, WHAT I WAS
TALKED ABOUT IN THE SPEECH-- ALL
THINKING ABOUT WAS JUST WHAT I
THESE ORDINARY FOLKS WHO DID
TALKED ABOUT IN THE SPEECH-- ALL
EXTRAORDINARY THINGS.
THESE ORDINARY FOLKS WHO DID
THERE AREN'T THAT MANY EXAMPLES
EXTRAORDINARY THINGS.
IN AMERICAN HISTORY, MAYBE EVEN
THERE AREN'T THAT MANY EXAMPLES
WORLD HISTORY, WHERE YOU SEE
IN AMERICAN HISTORY, MAYBE EVEN
MAIDS AND SEAMSTRESSES AND
WORLD HISTORY, WHERE YOU SEE
PORTERS AND LABORERS WHO ARE
MAIDS AND SEAMSTRESSES AND
ABLE TO FUNDAMENTALLY TRANSFORM
PORTERS AND LABORERS WHO ARE
THE MOST POWERFUL COUNTRY ON
ABLE TO FUNDAMENTALLY TRANSFORM
EARTH.
THE MOST POWERFUL COUNTRY ON
AND TO DO THAT WITH THE KIND OF
EARTH.
SACRIFICE AND DIGNITY AND
AND TO DO THAT WITH THE KIND OF
PASSION, BUT ALSO DISCIPLINE
SACRIFICE AND DIGNITY AND
THAT THEY SHOWED DURING THE
PASSION, BUT ALSO DISCIPLINE
COURSE OF THE MOVEMENT IS NOT
THAT THEY SHOWED DURING THE
JUST INSPIRING BUT GIVES YOU A
COURSE OF THE MOVEMENT IS NOT
SENSE OF HUMILITY AND A DESIRE
JUST INSPIRING BUT GIVES YOU A
TO DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN ON
SENSE OF HUMILITY AND A DESIRE
BEHALF OF THE PRINCIPLES FOR
TO DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN ON
WHICH THEY FOUGHT.
BEHALF OF THE PRINCIPLES FOR
Woodruff: WHY WAS IT
WHICH THEY FOUGHT.
IMPORTANT TO YOU TO BE THERE
Woodruff: WHY WAS IT
TODAY, TO BE PARENT OF THAT?
IMPORTANT TO YOU TO BE THERE
WELL, I'LL BE HONEST WITH
TODAY, TO BE PARENT OF THAT?
YOU.
WELL, I'LL BE HONEST WITH
I WOULD HAVE WANTED TO BE THERE
YOU.
EVEN IF I WASN'T SPEAKING, JUST
I WOULD HAVE WANTED TO BE THERE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT DAY IS AS
EVEN IF I WASN'T SPEAKING, JUST
IMPORTANT A DAY AS ANY IN OUR
BECAUSE I THINK THAT DAY IS AS
HISTORY.
IMPORTANT A DAY AS ANY IN OUR
YOU KNOW, WE RIGHTLY CELEBRATE
HISTORY.
THE HEROISM OFAND DIED TO PROTE.
YOU KNOW, WE RIGHTLY CELEBRATE
WE RIGHTLY CELEBRATE THINGS LIKE
THE HEROISM OFAND DIED TO PROTE.
THE MOON LANDING THAT SHOW THE
WE RIGHTLY CELEBRATE THINGS LIKE
EXTRAORDINARY CREATIVITY AND
THE MOON LANDING THAT SHOW THE
HINOVATION OF AMERICA
EXTRAORDINARY CREATIVITY AND
BUT THAT DAY CAPTURES SOMETHING
HINOVATION OF AMERICA
THAT IS SPECIAL ABOUT THIS
BUT THAT DAY CAPTURES SOMETHING
PLACE.
THAT IS SPECIAL ABOUT THIS
AND THAT IS THE CAPACITY FOR
PLACE.
ORDINARY PEOPLE, FOR CITIZENS,
AND THAT IS THE CAPACITY FOR
TO CHANGE STRUCTURES OF
ORDINARY PEOPLE, FOR CITIZENS,
OPPRESSION THAT HAD BEEN IN
TO CHANGE STRUCTURES OF
PLACE FOR DAEKDS AND TO DO IT
OPPRESSION THAT HAD BEEN IN
PEACEFULLY, IT NOT ONLY GIVES
PLACE FOR DAEKDS AND TO DO IT
YOU A SENSE OF THE POWER OF
PEACEFULLY, IT NOT ONLY GIVES
INDIVIDUALS.
YOU A SENSE OF THE POWER OF
BUT IT ALSO SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT
INDIVIDUALS.
THE POWER OF AMERICA TO
BUT IT ALSO SAYS SOMETHING ABOUT
BENEFICIARIES OF IT.
THE POWER OF AMERICA TO
Ifill: MR. PRESIDENT, AS WE
BENEFICIARIES OF IT.
WATCH THE WAY YOU TAKE ACTIONS
Ifill: MR. PRESIDENT, AS WE
ON THESE THINGS THAT YOU TALK
WATCH THE WAY YOU TAKE ACTIONS
ABOUT, YOU TAKE LEGAL MEANS,
ON THESE THINGS THAT YOU TALK
LEGAL ACTION-- THE ATTORNEY
ABOUT, YOU TAKE LEGAL MEANS,
GENERAL IS SUING THE STATE OF
LEGAL ACTION-- THE ATTORNEY
TEXAS OVER VOTER ID.
GENERAL IS SUING THE STATE OF
HE'S TALKING ABOUT ROLLING BACK
TEXAS OVER VOTER ID.
MANDATORY MINIMUM SENTENCES.
HE'S TALKING ABOUT ROLLING BACK
AND AT THE SAME TIME, THE
MANDATORY MINIMUM SENTENCES.
SUPREME COURT SEEMS TO BE
AND AT THE SAME TIME, THE
HEADING IN THE OPPOSITE
SUPREME COURT SEEMS TO BE
DIRECTION.
HEADING IN THE OPPOSITE
HOW DO YOU GET DONE WHAT SAY YOU
DIRECTION.
WANT TO GET DONE IN LEVELING
HOW DO YOU GET DONE WHAT SAY YOU
THAT PLAYING FIELD?
WANT TO GET DONE IN LEVELING
WELL, I WOULD DISTINGUISH
THAT PLAYING FIELD?
BETWEEN CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUES,
WELL, I WOULD DISTINGUISH
VOTING RIGHTS ISSUES, SOME OF
BETWEEN CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUES,
THE CORE LEGAL PROTECTIONS THAT
VOTING RIGHTS ISSUES, SOME OF
CAME ABOUT IN 1964.
THE CORE LEGAL PROTECTIONS THAT
YOU KNOW, IN THOSE AREAS, IT'S
CAME ABOUT IN 1964.
TRUE THAT WE'VE HAD SOME
YOU KNOW, IN THOSE AREAS, IT'S
OPINIONS, THE MOST PROMINENT ONE
TRUE THAT WE'VE HAD SOME
BEING THE CASE WHERE THE ROBERTS
OPINIONS, THE MOST PROMINENT ONE
COURT STRUCK DOWN A KEY SEGMENT
BEING THE CASE WHERE THE ROBERTS
OF THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT, WHERE
COURT STRUCK DOWN A KEY SEGMENT
WE JUST HAVE TO TRY A WHOLE
OF THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT, WHERE
RANGE OF APPROACHES TO MAKE UP
WE JUST HAVE TO TRY A WHOLE
FOR THOSE DECISIONS
RANGE OF APPROACHES TO MAKE UP
SO I WILL BE WORKING WITH PEOPLE
FOR THOSE DECISIONS
LIKE JOHN BUSINESS AND REACHING
SO I WILL BE WORKING WITH PEOPLE
OUT TO BOTH REPUBLICANS AND
LIKE JOHN BUSINESS AND REACHING
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS TO SEE IF
OUT TO BOTH REPUBLICANS AND
CONGRESS IS PREPARED TO AMEND
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS TO SEE IF
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT, TO ENSURE
CONGRESS IS PREPARED TO AMEND
THAT PEOPLE ARE NOT BEING
THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT, TO ENSURE
PREVENTED FROM VOTING.
THAT PEOPLE ARE NOT BEING
BUT CONGRESS DOESN'T MOVE REAL
PREVENTED FROM VOTING.
QUICKLY AROUND HERE, AND IF WE
BUT CONGRESS DOESN'T MOVE REAL
CAN GO AHEAD AND MOVE
QUICKLY AROUND HERE, AND IF WE
ADMINISTRATIVELY, SO THAT OUR
CAN GO AHEAD AND MOVE
ATTORNEY GENERAL CAN GO AHEAD IN
ADMINISTRATIVELY, SO THAT OUR
JURISDICTIONS THEEE
ATTORNEY GENERAL CAN GO AHEAD IN
INTENT ON PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM
JURISDICTIONS THEEE
VOTING AND THAT HAVE A RACIAL
INTENT ON PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM
ELEMENT TO TEVEN THOUGH LARGELY
VOTING AND THAT HAVE A RACIAL
IT'S PROBABLY FOR PARTISAN
ELEMENT TO TEVEN THOUGH LARGELY
REASONS, THEN WE NEED TO GO
IT'S PROBABLY FOR PARTISAN
AHEAD AND ENFORCE THE LAW.
REASONS, THEN WE NEED TO GO
AND THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT HAS A
AHEAD AND ENFORCE THE LAW.
NUMBER OF TOOLS, SECTION 4 WHICH
AND THE VOTING RIGHTS ACT HAS A
WAS STRUCK DOWN, WAS NOT THE
NUMBER OF TOOLS, SECTION 4 WHICH
ONLY TOOL AVAILABLE.
WAS STRUCK DOWN, WAS NOT THE
SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THAT.
ONLY TOOL AVAILABLE.
AS I SAID IN THE SPEECH, THOUGH,
SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THAT.
THERE ARE BROADER SET OF ISSUES
AS I SAID IN THE SPEECH, THOUGH,
THAT HAVE TO DO WITH THE
THERE ARE BROADER SET OF ISSUES
ECONOMY, AND ECONOMIC
THAT HAVE TO DO WITH THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THE LEGACY OF
ECONOMY, AND ECONOMIC
SLAVERY AND JIM CROWE AND THE
OPPORTUNITY AND THE LEGACY OF
CONTINUING BARRIERS THAT AFRICAN
SLAVERY AND JIM CROWE AND THE
AMERICANS AND HISPANICS AND
CONTINUING BARRIERS THAT AFRICAN
INCREASINGLY, YOU KNOW, WORKING
AMERICANS AND HISPANICS AND
CLASS WHITES HAVE IN TERMS OF
INCREASINGLY, YOU KNOW, WORKING
LIVING OUT THE AMERICAN DREAM,
CLASS WHITES HAVE IN TERMS OF
BEING ABLE TO GET A JOB THAT
LIVING OUT THE AMERICAN DREAM,
PAYS A DECENT WAGE AND CENTERING
BEING ABLE TO GET A JOB THAT
HEALTH CARE AND MAKING SURE THAT
PAYS A DECENT WAGE AND CENTERING
THEIR KIDS ARE GET THE EDUCATION
HEALTH CARE AND MAKING SURE THAT
THEY NEED TO COMPETE.
THEIR KIDS ARE GET THE EDUCATION
AND ON THOSE ISSUES, IT WOULD BE
THEY NEED TO COMPETE.
VERY HELPFUL IF CONGRESS MOVED
AND ON THOSE ISSUES, IT WOULD BE
BUT ONCE AGAIN, WE'RE NOT GOING
VERY HELPFUL IF CONGRESS MOVED
TO WAIT FOR CONGRESS.
BUT ONCE AGAIN, WE'RE NOT GOING
SO I WANT TO GET AN EARLY
TO WAIT FOR CONGRESS.
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION DONE.
SO I WANT TO GET AN EARLY
WE KNOW THAT'S THE SUCCESS MOST
CHILDHOOD EDUCATION DONE.
IMPORTANT THING WE CAN DO TO
WE KNOW THAT'S THE SUCCESS MOST
INCREASE OPPORTUNITY FOR
IMPORTANT THING WE CAN DO TO
DISADVANTAGED KIDS.
INCREASE OPPORTUNITY FOR
AND IF CONGRESS ISN'T WILLING
DISADVANTAGED KIDS.
WILLING TO PASS A LAW, I'LL
AND IF CONGRESS ISN'T WILLING
START MEETING WITH MAYORS AND
WILLING TO PASS A LAW, I'LL
WE'LL START MEETING WITH
START MEETING WITH MAYORS AND
GOVERNORS, AND WE'LL START
WE'LL START MEETING WITH
MEETING WITH NONPROFITS --
GOVERNORS, AND WE'LL START
Ifill: INCLUDING MAYORS WHO
MEETING WITH NONPROFITS --
PASS THINGS LIKE STOP AND FRISK?
Ifill: INCLUDING MAYORS WHO
WELL, THE FACT THAT A MAYOR
PASS THINGS LIKE STOP AND FRISK?
MAY HAVE ONE POLICY I DISAGREE
WELL, THE FACT THAT A MAYOR
WITH DOESN'T MEAN I CAN'T WORK
MAY HAVE ONE POLICY I DISAGREE
WITH HIM ON OTHERS.
WITH DOESN'T MEAN I CAN'T WORK
SO WE'LL USE THE CONVENING POWER
WITH HIM ON OTHERS.
OF MY OFFICE TO TRY TO MOVE THE
SO WE'LL USE THE CONVENING POWER
BALL DOWNTOWN FIELD.
OF MY OFFICE TO TRY TO MOVE THE
THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT WE
BALL DOWNTOWN FIELD.
CAN'T DO ON OUR OWN.
THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT WE
I STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT WE
CAN'T DO ON OUR OWN.
SHOULD BE PASSING AN INCREASE IN
I STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT WE
THE MINIMUM WAGE THAT HASN'T, AS
SHOULD BE PASSING AN INCREASE IN
A PRACTICAL MATTER, REALLY GONE
THE MINIMUM WAGE THAT HASN'T, AS
UP IN A VERY LONG TIME.
A PRACTICAL MATTER, REALLY GONE
WHEN YOU FACTOR IN INFLATION.
UP IN A VERY LONG TIME.
THAT WOULD MAKE A DIFFERENCE FOR
WHEN YOU FACTOR IN INFLATION.
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE AROUND THE
THAT WOULD MAKE A DIFFERENCE FOR
COUNTRY.
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE AROUND THE
I THINK THAT IT IS IMPORTANT FOR
COUNTRY.
TO US MAKE SURE WE'RE RING ABOUT
I THINK THAT IT IS IMPORTANT FOR
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THIS
TO US MAKE SURE WE'RE RING ABOUT
NATION.
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THIS
WE COULD BE PUTTING PEOPLE BACK
NATION.
TO WORK RIGHT NOW, INCREASING
WE COULD BE PUTTING PEOPLE BACK
THE GROWTH OF THE ECONOMY,
TO WORK RIGHT NOW, INCREASING
REDUCING UNEMPLOYMENT.
THE GROWTH OF THE ECONOMY,
THOSE THINGS I NEED CONGRESS TO
REDUCING UNEMPLOYMENT.
DO.
THOSE THINGS I NEED CONGRESS TO
BUT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS-- FOR
DO.
EXAMPLE, WE WENT AHEAD AND AND
BUT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS-- FOR
ARE MOVING FORWARD ON SOMETHING
EXAMPLE, WE WENT AHEAD AND AND
WE CALL CONNECTED, THAT MAKES
ARE MOVING FORWARD ON SOMETHING
SURE EVERCLASSROOM IN AMERICA IS
WE CALL CONNECTED, THAT MAKES
CONNECTED TO WIRELESS INTERNET
SURE EVERCLASSROOM IN AMERICA IS
SO NEW TECH FLOGZ ACCESSIBLE TO
CONNECTED TO WIRELESS INTERNET
EVERY CHILD IN THIS COUNTRY.
SO NEW TECH FLOGZ ACCESSIBLE TO
IT TURNS OUT WE CAN DO THAT
EVERY CHILD IN THIS COUNTRY.
WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL ACTION.
IT TURNS OUT WE CAN DO THAT
WHERE CONGRESS IS UNWILLING TO
WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL ACTION.
MOVE, WE'LL MOVE.
WHERE CONGRESS IS UNWILLING TO
WHERE IT CAN'T, WE CAN'T.
MOVE, WE'LL MOVE.
BUT THE GOAL OF MY SPEECH TODAY
WHERE IT CAN'T, WE CAN'T.
I THINK WAS JUST TO REMIND ALL
BUT THE GOAL OF MY SPEECH TODAY
OF US THAT FOR ALL THE VICTORIES
I THINK WAS JUST TO REMIND ALL
THAT WE'VE WON OVER THE LAST 50
OF US THAT FOR ALL THE VICTORIES
YEARS, WHAT YOU NOW HAVE IS A
THAT WE'VE WON OVER THE LAST 50
SITUATION IN WHICH ALL WORKING
YEARS, WHAT YOU NOW HAVE IS A
PEOPLE, ALL MIDDLE CLASS
SITUATION IN WHICH ALL WORKING
FAMILIES UNDER STRAIN, AND WE
PEOPLE, ALL MIDDLE CLASS
HAVE INCREASING INEQUALITY IN
FAMILIES UNDER STRAIN, AND WE
THIS SOCIETY, AND WE'VE GOT TO
HAVE INCREASING INEQUALITY IN
DO SOMETHING ABOUT THAT AND WE
THIS SOCIETY, AND WE'VE GOT TO
CAN DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT AS
DO SOMETHING ABOUT THAT AND WE
LONG AS WE KEEP OUR EYE ON THE
CAN DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT AS
BALL.
LONG AS WE KEEP OUR EYE ON THE
Woodruff: AND LET ME JUST
BALL.
PICK UP ON THAT BECAUSE DID TIE
Woodruff: AND LET ME JUST
DR. KING'S VISION TO YOUR OWN
PICK UP ON THAT BECAUSE DID TIE
AGENDA, AND YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO
DR. KING'S VISION TO YOUR OWN
DO-- HELP THE COUNTRY IN MANY
AGENDA, AND YOU'VE BEEN ABLE TO
WAYS.
DO-- HELP THE COUNTRY IN MANY
WE DIDN'T GO GINTO THE ECONOMIC
WAYS.
ABYSS AFTER THE FINANCIAL
WE DIDN'T GO GINTO THE ECONOMIC
COLLAPSE.
ABYSS AFTER THE FINANCIAL
WALL STREET'S BOOMING.
COLLAPSE.
CORPORATIONS ARE MAKING GREAT
WALL STREET'S BOOMING.
PROFITS.
CORPORATIONS ARE MAKING GREAT
BUT AS YOU POINTED OUT TODAY,
PROFITS.
AVERAGE WAGES, THE GAP BETWEEN
BUT AS YOU POINTED OUT TODAY,
THE WEG WEALTHY AND THOSE WHO AE
AVERAGE WAGES, THE GAP BETWEEN
NOT WEALTHY HAS NOAFER BEEN
THE WEG WEALTHY AND THOSE WHO AE
BIGGER THAN IT IS TODAY.
NOT WEALTHY HAS NOAFER BEEN
THE WAGES, ESPECIALLY OF AFRICAN
BIGGER THAN IT IS TODAY.
AMERICANS, HAVEN'T IMPROVED.
THE WAGES, ESPECIALLY OF AFRICAN
MR. PRESIDENT, HOW MUCH DOES IT
AMERICANS, HAVEN'T IMPROVED.
WAIG WEIGHING ON YOU THAT YOUR
MR. PRESIDENT, HOW MUCH DOES IT
POLICIES HAVEN'T MADE MORE OF A
WAIG WEIGHING ON YOU THAT YOUR
DIFFERENCE IN THOSE AREAS?
POLICIES HAVEN'T MADE MORE OF A
WELL, IT CERTAINLY WEIGHS ON
DIFFERENCE IN THOSE AREAS?
ME.
WELL, IT CERTAINLY WEIGHS ON
INIFY MYFIRST TERM, ESSENTIALLY,
ME.
MY JOB WAS, TO, AS YOU SAID,
INIFY MYFIRST TERM, ESSENTIALLY,
MAKE SHIEWRPT ECONOMY DIDN'T
MY JOB WAS, TO, AS YOU SAID,
COMPLETELY COLLAPSE.
MAKE SHIEWRPT ECONOMY DIDN'T
IT COLLAPSED BUT IT DIDN'T GO
COMPLETELY COLLAPSE.
INTO DEEP DEPRESSION.
IT COLLAPSED BUT IT DIDN'T GO
THE REASON THAT HAD TO BE A TOP
INTO DEEP DEPRESSION.
PRIORITY IS BECAUSE IF IT DID,
THE REASON THAT HAD TO BE A TOP
THE FOLKS WHO HA WOULD HAVE BEEN
PRIORITY IS BECAUSE IF IT DID,
HURT WORSE WERE THE MIDDLE CLASS
THE FOLKS WHO HA WOULD HAVE BEEN
FAMILIES AND FOLKS TRY TO GET
HURT WORSE WERE THE MIDDLE CLASS
INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS WHO WOULD
FAMILIES AND FOLKS TRY TO GET
HAVE LOST MORE THAN THEY DID.
INTO THE MIDDLE CLASS WHO WOULD
WHAT WE WERE ALSO ABLE TO DO--
HAVE LOST MORE THAN THEY DID.
AT LEAST IN MY FIRST TWO YEARS--
WHAT WE WERE ALSO ABLE TO DO--
WAS TO INITIATE EXPANSIONS OF
AT LEAST IN MY FIRST TWO YEARS--
PELL GRANT PROGRAMS OR MAKE SURE
WAS TO INITIATE EXPANSIONS OF
THAT WE WERE PROVIDING HELP TO
PELL GRANT PROGRAMS OR MAKE SURE
THE CITIES SO THAT THE THEY COUD
THAT WE WERE PROVIDING HELP TO
HIRE YOUNG PEOPLE DURING THE
THE CITIES SO THAT THE THEY COUD
SUMMERS.
HIRE YOUNG PEOPLE DURING THE
BUT, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY, AN
SUMMERS.
AGENDA THAT PUTS MORE PEOPLE
BUT, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY, AN
BACK TO WORK HAS MET RESISTANCE
AGENDA THAT PUTS MORE PEOPLE
FROM THE REPUBLICANS IN
BACK TO WORK HAS MET RESISTANCE
CONGRESS.
FROM THE REPUBLICANS IN
AND I RECOGNIZE THAT.
CONGRESS.
BUT THERE ARE-- THE-- WHAT IS
AND I RECOGNIZE THAT.
BOTH TROUBLING BUT ALSO I THINK
BUT THERE ARE-- THE-- WHAT IS
GIVES ME A GREATER SENSE OF
BOTH TROUBLING BUT ALSO I THINK
URGENCY IS THIS IS A TREND THAT
GIVES ME A GREATER SENSE OF
HAS BEEN GOING ON FAIR COUPLE
URGENCY IS THIS IS A TREND THAT
DECADES NOW.
HAS BEEN GOING ON FAIR COUPLE
AS I MENTIONED IN THE SPEECH,
DECADES NOW.
YOU HAVE TECHNOLOGY THAT HAS
AS I MENTIONED IN THE SPEECH,
REDUCED MANUFACTURING JOBS THAT
YOU HAVE TECHNOLOGY THAT HAS
USED TO BE A FOOTHOLD INTO THE
REDUCED MANUFACTURING JOBS THAT
MIDDLE CLASS, THAT HAS REDUCED
USED TO BE A FOOTHOLD INTO THE
THINGS LIKE BANK TELLERS OR
MIDDLE CLASS, THAT HAS REDUCED
TRAVEL AGENTS THAT USED TO
THINGS LIKE BANK TELLERS OR
PROVIDE A GOOD MIDDLE-CLASS
TRAVEL AGENTS THAT USED TO
LIVELIHOOD, AND THE NEW JOBS
PROVIDE A GOOD MIDDLE-CLASS
THAT HAVE BEEN PRODUCED DON'T
LIVELIHOOD, AND THE NEW JOBS
PAY AS MUCH.
THAT HAVE BEEN PRODUCED DON'T
YOU'VE GOT GLOBAL COMP TIRKZ
PAY AS MUCH.
JOBS BEING SHIPPED OVERSEAS.
YOU'VE GOT GLOBAL COMP TIRKZ
ALL THESE THINGS REDUCE THE
JOBS BEING SHIPPED OVERSEAS.
LEVERAGE WORKERS HAVE AND AS A
ALL THESE THINGS REDUCE THE
CONSEQUENCE IT'S A LOT HARDER
LEVERAGE WORKERS HAVE AND AS A
FOR EVERY WORKER-- BLACK, WHITE,
CONSEQUENCE IT'S A LOT HARDER
HISPANIC, ASIAN-- TO ASK FOR A
FOR EVERY WORKER-- BLACK, WHITE,
RAISE, AND EMPLOYERS KNOW THAT.
HISPANIC, ASIAN-- TO ASK FOR A
AND COMPANIES ARE MAKING GREAT
RAISE, AND EMPLOYERS KNOW THAT.
PROFITS, BUT THEY'RE NOT
AND COMPANIES ARE MAKING GREAT
REINVESTING.
PROFITS, BUT THEY'RE NOT
SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS TO GO
REINVESTING.
BACK TO A PRINCIPLE THAT IF YOU
SO WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS TO GO
LOOK AT OUR ECONOMIC HISTORY HAS
BACK TO A PRINCIPLE THAT IF YOU
ALWAYS BEEN THE CASE-- WHEN WE
LOOK AT OUR ECONOMIC HISTORY HAS
HAVE BRAUT BASED GROWTH, WHEN
ALWAYS BEEN THE CASE-- WHEN WE
THE MIDDLE CLASS DOES WELL, WHEN
HAVE BRAUT BASED GROWTH, WHEN
PEOPLE AT THE BOTTOM HAVE A
THE MIDDLE CLASS DOES WELL, WHEN
SHOT, IT TURNS OUT THAT'S GOOD
PEOPLE AT THE BOTTOM HAVE A
FOR EVERYBODY.
SHOT, IT TURNS OUT THAT'S GOOD
IT'S GOOD FOR FOLKS AT THE TOP.
FOR EVERYBODY.
IT'S GOOD FOR BUSINESSES BECAUSE
IT'S GOOD FOR FOLKS AT THE TOP.
NOW THEY HAVE PEOPLE SPEND
IT'S GOOD FOR BUSINESSES BECAUSE
MANAGER MONEY.
NOW THEY HAVE PEOPLE SPEND
AND A LOT OF WHAT I'LL BE
MANAGER MONEY.
TALKING ABOUT OVER THE NEXT
AND A LOT OF WHAT I'LL BE
SEVERAL MONTHS IS SPECIFIC
TALKING ABOUT OVER THE NEXT
STEPS, WHETHER HELPING KEEP DOWN
SEVERAL MONTHS IS SPECIFIC
THE COST OF COLLEGE OR HELPING
STEPS, WHETHER HELPING KEEP DOWN
TO DO MORE TO SPUR ON THE
THE COST OF COLLEGE OR HELPING
RECOVERY IN THE HOUSING
TO DO MORE TO SPUR ON THE
INDUSTRY, OR AS I'LL BE TALKING
RECOVERY IN THE HOUSING
ABOUT PROBABLY IN THE NEXT
INDUSTRY, OR AS I'LL BE TALKING
SEVERAL WEEKS, SPECIFIC TOOLS
ABOUT PROBABLY IN THE NEXT
THAT WE KNOW WORK, PROVEN
SEVERAL WEEKS, SPECIFIC TOOLS
PRACTICES THAT WE KNOW WORK TO
THAT WE KNOW WORK, PROVEN
GIVE MORE LADDERS OF OPPORTUNITY
PRACTICES THAT WE KNOW WORK TO
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE POOR TO BE
GIVE MORE LADDERS OF OPPORTUNITY
ABLE TO SUCCEED.
FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE POOR TO BE
Ifill: FINAL QUESTION,
ABLE TO SUCCEED.
MR. PRESIDENT.
Ifill: FINAL QUESTION,
YOU SAID IN YOUR SPEECHUE TALKED
MR. PRESIDENT.
ABOUT THE ARC OF THE MORAL
YOU SAID IN YOUR SPEECHUE TALKED
UNIVERSE, QUOTE DRG KING.
ABOUT THE ARC OF THE MORAL
AND YOU SAID IT-- INTERVIEW
UNIVERSE, QUOTE DRG KING.
TAYLOR BRANCH IN OUR SERIES, AND
AND YOU SAID IT-- INTERVIEW
ONE OF THE THINGS HE SAID WAS
TAYLOR BRANCH IN OUR SERIES, AND
YOU SUFFER-- YOU ARE A VICTIM OF
ONE OF THE THINGS HE SAID WAS
PARTISAN RACIAL GRIDLOCK.
YOU SUFFER-- YOU ARE A VICTIM OF
THAT'S THE WAY HE PUT IT.
PARTISAN RACIAL GRIDLOCK.
AND YOU TALKED A MOMENT AGO
THAT'S THE WAY HE PUT IT.
ABOUT THAT A LITTLE BIT.
AND YOU TALKED A MOMENT AGO
I WONDER WHETHER YOU THINK
ABOUT THAT A LITTLE BIT.
THAT'S TRUE.
I WONDER WHETHER YOU THINK
AND IF SO, WHAT IF ANYTHING--
THAT'S TRUE.
THE FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN
AND IF SO, WHAT IF ANYTHING--
PRESIDENT CAN DO TO BRE OF MOTID
THE FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN
GRIDLOCK.
PRESIDENT CAN DO TO BRE OF MOTID
I WAS ON THE STAGE WITH
GRIDLOCK.
PRESIDENT CLINTON, AND I
I WAS ON THE STAGE WITH
REMEMBER HIM HAVING A PRETTY
PRESIDENT CLINTON, AND I
HARD TIME WITH REPUBLICANS AS
REMEMBER HIM HAVING A PRETTY
WELL.
HARD TIME WITH REPUBLICANS AS
THERE DOES TO SEEM TO BE A HABIT
WELL.
SOMETIMES OF DEMOCRATIC
THERE DOES TO SEEM TO BE A HABIT
PRESIDENTS GENERALLY BEING--
SOMETIMES OF DEMOCRATIC
EFFORTS BEING MADE TO
PRESIDENTS GENERALLY BEING--
DELEGITIMIZE THEM IN SOME
EFFORTS BEING MADE TO
FASHION.
DELEGITIMIZE THEM IN SOME
AND THAT'S FINE BECAUSE POLITICS
FASHION.
IS NOT BEAN BAG, AS THEY USED TO
AND THAT'S FINE BECAUSE POLITICS
SAY.
IS NOT BEAN BAG, AS THEY USED TO
IT'S NOT A NONCONTACT SPORT.
SAY.
AND I DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT
IT'S NOT A NONCONTACT SPORT.
PERSONALLY.
AND I DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT
I DO THINK WHAT'S-- WHAT YOU'VE
PERSONALLY.
SEEN-- AND I TOUCHED ON THIS
I DO THINK WHAT'S-- WHAT YOU'VE
THEME DURING THE SPEECH-- I TANK
SEEN-- AND I TOUCHED ON THIS
HAS LESTO DO WITH MY RACE BUT
THEME DURING THE SPEECH-- I TANK
THERE IS AN ARGUMENT THAT WAS
HAS LESTO DO WITH MY RACE BUT
MADE IN 1964, 1965 ON THROUGH
THERE IS AN ARGUMENT THAT WAS
THE 80s AND 90s IN WHICH
MADE IN 1964, 1965 ON THROUGH
THOSE WHO RESISTED ANY CHECKIN
THE 80s AND 90s IN WHICH
THE STATUS QUO, PARTICULARLY
THOSE WHO RESISTED ANY CHECKIN
WHEN IT CAME TO ECONOMIC
THE STATUS QUO, PARTICULARLY
OPPORTUNITY, MADE TWO ARGUMENTS.
WHEN IT CAME TO ECONOMIC
ARGUMENT NUMBER ONE WAS ANY
OPPORTUNITY, MADE TWO ARGUMENTS.
EFFORTS BY GOVERNMENT TO HELP
ARGUMENT NUMBER ONE WAS ANY
FOLKS WHO WERE LOCKED OUT OF
EFFORTS BY GOVERNMENT TO HELP
OPPORTUNITY, WHETHER IT WAS
FOLKS WHO WERE LOCKED OUT OF
MINORITIES OR THE POOR
OPPORTUNITY, WHETHER IT WAS
GENERALLY, UNIONS-- ANY EFFORT
MINORITIES OR THE POOR
BY GOVERNMENT TO HELP THOSE
GENERALLY, UNIONS-- ANY EFFORT
FOLKS IS BAD FOR THE ECONOMY.
BY GOVERNMENT TO HELP THOSE
AND THAT BECAME A MAJOR
FOLKS IS BAD FOR THE ECONOMY.
ARGUMENT, AND IF IN FACT PEOPLE
AND THAT BECAME A MAJOR
START THINKING THE GOVERNMENT'S
ARGUMENT, AND IF IN FACT PEOPLE
THE PROBLEM INSTEAD OF THE
START THINKING THE GOVERNMENT'S
SOLUTION, THEN WHAT THAT LEAVES
THE PROBLEM INSTEAD OF THE
YOU IS WHATEVER THE MARKETPLACE
SOLUTION, THEN WHAT THAT LEAVES
DOES ON ITS OWN.
YOU IS WHATEVER THE MARKETPLACE
AND WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS A
DOES ON ITS OWN.
MARKETPLACE THAT INCREASINGLY
AND WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS A
PRODUCES VERY UNEQUAL RESULTS.
MARKETPLACE THAT INCREASINGLY
SO IT-- IT DISEMPOWERS OUR
PRODUCES VERY UNEQUAL RESULTS.
CAPACITY FOR COMMON ACTION TO DO
SO IT-- IT DISEMPOWERS OUR
SOMETHING ABOUT POVERTY, TO DO
CAPACITY FOR COMMON ACTION TO DO
SOMETHING TO HELP MIDDLE CLASS
SOMETHING ABOUT POVERTY, TO DO
FAMILIES.
SOMETHING TO HELP MIDDLE CLASS
I THINK THE SECOND ELEMENT TO
FAMILIES.
THAT ARGUMENT THAT HAS BEEN
I THINK THE SECOND ELEMENT TO
MADE, SOMETIMES SUBTLY,
THAT ARGUMENT THAT HAS BEEN
SOMETIMES NOT SO SULTY, IS THAT
MADE, SOMETIMES SUBTLY,
GOVERNMENT HAS HURT MIDDLE CLASS
SOMETIMES NOT SO SULTY, IS THAT
FAMILIES OR HURT WHITE WORKING
GOVERNMENT HAS HURT MIDDLE CLASS
CLASS FAMILIES BECAUSE, YOU
FAMILIES OR HURT WHITE WORKING
KNOW, POINTY HEADED BUREAUCRATS
CLASS FAMILIES BECAUSE, YOU
IN WASHINGTON ARE JUST TRYING TO
KNOW, POINTY HEADED BUREAUCRATS
HELP OUT MINORITIES.
IN WASHINGTON ARE JUST TRYING TO
OR TRYING TO GIVE THEM SOMETHING
HELP OUT MINORITIES.
FREE.
OR TRYING TO GIVE THEM SOMETHING
AND, YOU KNOW, THERE'S A LINE
FREE.
THAT'S DRAWN BETWEEN THE
AND, YOU KNOW, THERE'S A LINE
DESERVING POOR AND THE
THAT'S DRAWN BETWEEN THE
UNDESERVING POOR.
DESERVING POOR AND THE
AND, YOU KNOW, THAT I THINK HAS
UNDESERVING POOR.
BEEN A FAIRLY EXPLICIT POLITICS
AND, YOU KNOW, THAT I THINK HAS
IN THIS COUNTRY FOR SOME TIME.
BEEN A FAIRLY EXPLICIT POLITICS
AND IT'S DIRECTED AT BILL
IN THIS COUNTRY FOR SOME TIME.
CLINTON OR NANCY PELOSI, JUST AS
AND IT'S DIRECTED AT BILL
MUCH AS IT'S DIRECTED AT ME.
CLINTON OR NANCY PELOSI, JUST AS
I THINK IT DOESN'T HAVE TO DO
MUCH AS IT'S DIRECTED AT ME.
WITH MY RACE IN PARTICULAR.
I THINK IT DOESN'T HAVE TO DO
IT HAS TO DO WITH AN EFFORT TO
WITH MY RACE IN PARTICULAR.
MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE WHO MIGHT
IT HAS TO DO WITH AN EFFORT TO
OTHERWISE CHALLENGE THE EXISTING
MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE WHO MIGHT
WAYS THAT THINGS WORK ARE
OTHERWISE CHALLENGE THE EXISTING
TWIEDED.
WAYS THAT THINGS WORK ARE
AND SO PART OF WHAT DR. KING
TWIEDED.
TALKED ABOUT, PART OF WHAT I
AND SO PART OF WHAT DR. KING
THINK WE HAVE TO GET BACK TO IS
TALKED ABOUT, PART OF WHAT I
A RECOGNITION THAT, YOU KNOW,
THINK WE HAVE TO GET BACK TO IS
THE-- THE WORKING MAN IN
A RECOGNITION THAT, YOU KNOW,
ARKANSAS WHO HAPPENS TO BE WHITE
THE-- THE WORKING MAN IN
AND THE BLACK WOMAN IN
ARKANSAS WHO HAPPENS TO BE WHITE
PHILADELPHIA WHO WANTS TO WORK,
AND THE BLACK WOMAN IN
BUT IS HAVING A TOUGH TIME
PHILADELPHIA WHO WANTS TO WORK,
FINDING A JOB, THAT THEY'VE GOT
BUT IS HAVING A TOUGH TIME
THINGS IN COMMON, THAT IN FACT
FINDING A JOB, THAT THEY'VE GOT
THEY CAN WORK TOGETHER.
THINGS IN COMMON, THAT IN FACT
AND THEY BOTH GOT KIDS WE WANT
THEY CAN WORK TOGETHER.
TO MAKE SURE BOTH OF THOSE KIDS
AND THEY BOTH GOT KIDS WE WANT
ARE ABLE TO GET THE TRAINING
TO MAKE SURE BOTH OF THOSE KIDS
THEY NEED AND GO TO COLLEGE.
ARE ABLE TO GET THE TRAINING
AND SUCCEED IN THIS-- IN THIS
THEY NEED AND GO TO COLLEGE.
ECONOMY.
AND SUCCEED IN THIS-- IN THIS
AND THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS
ECONOMY.
THAT ONLY GOVERNMENT CAN DO
AND THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS
TOGETHER, LIKE REBUILDING OUR
THAT ONLY GOVERNMENT CAN DO
ROADS AND OUR BRIDGES AND
TOGETHER, LIKE REBUILDING OUR
PUTTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK, YOU
ROADS AND OUR BRIDGES AND
KNOW, CREATING THE KIND OF
PUTTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK, YOU
ENERGY THAT WILL ALLOW OUR
KNOW, CREATING THE KIND OF
ECONOMY TO SUCCEED IN THE
ENERGY THAT WILL ALLOW OUR
FUTURE.
ECONOMY TO SUCCEED IN THE
AND SO I'M LESS CONCERNED ABOUT
FUTURE.
THE SHORT-TERM POLITICS AND
AND SO I'M LESS CONCERNED ABOUT
TACTICS THAT YOU KIND OF SEE AND
THE SHORT-TERM POLITICS AND
GET DEBATED A LOT ON CABLE
TACTICS THAT YOU KIND OF SEE AND
TELEVISION.
GET DEBATED A LOT ON CABLE
AND I'M MUCH MORE INTERESTED IN
TELEVISION.
FIGURING OUT HOW DO WE CREATE
AND I'M MUCH MORE INTERESTED IN
COMMON CAUSE FOR THE
FIGURING OUT HOW DO WE CREATE
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
COMMON CAUSE FOR THE
AMERICANS WHO ARE DECENT, HARD
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF
WORKING I THINK JUST WANT TO DO
AMERICANS WHO ARE DECENT, HARD
RIGHT BY THEIR KIDS AND THEIR
WORKING I THINK JUST WANT TO DO
FAMILIES AND THEIR COMMUNITIES.
RIGHT BY THEIR KIDS AND THEIR
THEY'VE LOST TRUST IN THE
FAMILIES AND THEIR COMMUNITIES.
CAPACITY OF GOVERNMENT TO HELP
THEY'VE LOST TRUST IN THE
THEM, EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE
CAPACITY OF GOVERNMENT TO HELP
HURTING.
THEM, EVEN THOUGH THEY'RE
ARE THERE THINGS WE CAN DO TO
HURTING.
BRING ABOUT THAT KIND OF
ARE THERE THINGS WE CAN DO TO
COALITION OF CONSCIENCE, AS I
BRING ABOUT THAT KIND OF
SAID, AND I THINK THERE ARE.
COALITION OF CONSCIENCE, AS I
I'M AN ETERNAL OPTIMIST.
SAID, AND I THINK THERE ARE.
Woodruff: THANK YOU,
I'M AN ETERNAL OPTIMIST.
MR. PRESIDENT.
Woodruff: THANK YOU,
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE YOU WITH US ON
MR. PRESIDENT.
THE "NEWSHOUR."
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE YOU WITH US ON
IT WAS WONDERFUL TO BE HERE.
THE "NEWSHOUR."
Ifill: THANK YOU,
IT WAS WONDERFUL TO BE HERE.
MR. PRESIDENT.
Ifill: THANK YOU,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MR. PRESIDENT.
AS THAT INTERVIEW CONCLUDED,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THERE WAS WORD THAT HOUSE
AS THAT INTERVIEW CONCLUDED,
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER HAS SENT A
THERE WAS WORD THAT HOUSE
LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT.
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER HAS SENT A
IN IT, HE ASKS MR. OBAMA TO
LETTER TO THE PRESIDENT.
SPELL OUT THE LEGAL BASIS FOR
IN IT, HE ASKS MR. OBAMA TO
ANY ATTACK ON SYRIA, AND EXPLAIN
SPELL OUT THE LEGAL BASIS FOR
HOW IT WOULD BENEFIT U.S.
ANY ATTACK ON SYRIA, AND EXPLAIN
NATIONAL SECURITY.
Woodruff: NOW, TO THE
HIGHLIGHTS OF A REMARKABLE DAY
IN WASHINGTON.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THAT STORY.
Reporter: IT WAS AUGUST 28,
1963, AND MORE THAN 200,000
PEOPLE, GATHERED ON THE NATIONAL
MALL, LISTENED RAPTLY TO DR.
MARTIN LUTHER KING'S HISTORIC
APPEAL.
I HAVE A DREAM.
( CHEERS )
>> Reporter: TODAY, THOUSANDS
GATHERED AGAIN AT THE LINCOLN
MEMORIAL, STANDING FOR HOURS
THROUGH A LIGHT RAIN TO
COMMEMORATE THE ANNIVERSARY.
THE ATMOSPHERE AND MUSIC WERE AT
TIMES FESTIVE.
AND AT TIMES SOLEMN, AS WITH A
RENDITION OF "BLOWIN' IN THE
WIND" THAT INCLUDED THE PARENTS
OF SLAIN FLORIDA TEENAGER
TRAYVON MARTIN.
SCORES OF SPEAKERS HONORED
KING'S LEGACY AND SOUGHT TO
EXPAND IT TO NEW GROUPS AND NEW
TIMES.
DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSMAN JOAQUIN
CASTRO OF TEXAS SAID LATINOS,
TOO, LOOK THE STRUGGLES OF BLACK
AMERICANS, AS A MODEL.
>> AS SOMEBODY OF A YOUNGER
GENERATION OF AMERICANS I WANT
TO PROMISE YOU THAT ALL OF THE
STRUGGLES AND ALL OF THE FIGHTS
AND ALL OF THE WORK AND ALL OF
THE YEARS THAT YOU PUT INTO
MAKING OUR COUNTRY A BETTER
PLACE, TO HELPING OUR LEADERS
UNDERSTAND THAT FREEDOM AND
DEMOCRACY ARE PREREQUISITES TO
OPPORTUNITY.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW THIS
GENERATION OF AMERICANS WILL NOT
LET THAT DREAM GO.
>> Reporter: WOMEN PLAYED A KEY
ROLE IN ORGANIZING THE ORIGINAL
MARCH, ALTHOUGH NONE WERE
FEATURED SPEAKERS.
TODAY'S PROGRAM INCLUDED A
NUMBER OF WOMEN.
ACTIVIST AND JOURNALIST MYRLIE
EVERS WILLIAMS-- THE WIFE OF
ASSASSINATED CIVIL RIGHTS
ACTIVIST MEDGAR EVERS--
EMPHASIZED UNITY OF PURPOSE.
>> THE MOVEMENT CAN NO LONGER
AFFORD AN INDIVIDUAL APPROACH TO
JUSTICE.
OURS IS AN INTERCONNECTED
STRUGGLE.
BLACK, WHITE, MALE, FEMALE,
YOUNG, OLD, EVERYONE.
WE ARE ALL ENTITLED TO, AND
PROTECTED BY, THIS COUNTRY THAT
WE CALL HOME.
>> Reporter: PRESIDENT JOHN F.
KENNEDY'S DAUGHTER, CAROLINE,
CALLED FOR TODAY'S AMERICANS TO
BUILD ON THEIR PARENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS.
HER FATHER WAS PRESIDENT AT THE
TIME OF THE 1963 MARCH.
>> 50 YEARS AGO, OUR PARENTS AND
GRANDPARENTS MARCHED FOR JOBS
AND FREEDOM.
WE HAVE SUFFERED AND SACRIFICED
TOO MUCH TO LET THEIR DREAM
BECOME A MEMORY.
>> Reporter: DR. KING'S
DAUGHTER-- THE REVEREND BERNICE
KING-- WAS AN INFANT IN 1963.
TODAY, SHE SPOKE AS HEAD OF THE
KING CENTER FOR NON-VIOLENT
SOCIAL CHANGE.
>> FOR THERE'S A REMNANT FROM
1963 CONGRESSMAN LEWIS,
AMBASSADOR YOUNG THAT STILL
REMAIN.
WHO HAS COME TO BEQUEATH THAT
MESSAGE OF FREEDOM TO A NEW
GENERATION OF PEOPLE WHO MUST
NOW CARRY THAT MESSAGE IN THEIR
TIME, IN THEIR COMMUNITIES AND
AMONGST THEIR TRIBES AND AMONGST
THEIR NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: GEORGIA CONGRESSMAN
JOHN L. LEWIS WAS THE YOUNGEST
PERSON TO ADDRESS THE CROWD IN
1963.
HE'S NOW 73, AND THE ONLY LIVING
SPEAKER FROM THAT DAY, AND HE
REFLECTED ON THE CHANGES HE'S
SEEN.
>> 50 YEARS LATER, WE CAN RIDE
ANYWHERE WE WANT TO RIDE.
WE CAN STAY WHERE WE WANT TO
STAY.
THOSE SIGNS THAT SAID WHITE AND
COLORED ARE GONE.
BUT THERE ARE STILL INVISIBLE
SIGNS.
BARRIERS IN THE HEARTS OF
HUMANKIND THAT FORM A GULF
BETWEEN US.
TOO MANY OF US STILL BELIEVE OUR
DIFFERENCES DEFINE US INSTEAD OF
THE DIVINE SPARK THAT RUNS
THROUGH ALL OF HUMAN CREATION.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER GEORGIAN--
FORMER PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER--
WARNED OF NEW BARRIERS IN THE
FORM OF ASSAULTS ON VOTING
RIGHTS.
>> I BELIEVE WE ALL KNOW HOW DR.
KING WOULD HAVE REACTED TO NEW
THE I.D. REQUIREMENTS TO EXCLUDE
CERTAIN VOTERS, ESPECIALLY
AFRICAN AMERICANS.
I THINK WE ALL KNOW HOW DR. KING
WOULD HAVE REACTED TO THE
SUPREME COURT STRIKING A CRUCIAL
DOWN PART OF THE VOTER RIGHTS
ACT JUST RECENTLY PASSED
OVERWHELMINGLY BY CONGRESS.
>> Reporter: FORMER PRESIDENT
BILL CLINTON URGED AMERICANS TO
PUT ASIDE POLITICAL AND RACIAL
DIVISIONS, AS THEY LOOK TO THE
FUTURE.
>> THE CHOICE REMAINS AS IT WAS
ON THAT DISTANT SUMMER DAY 50
YEARS AGO.
COOPERATE AND THRIVE, OR FIGHT
WITH EACH OTHER AND FALL BEHIND.
WE SHOULD ALL THANK GOD FOR DR.
KING AND JOHN LEWIS AND ALL
THOSE WHO GAVE US A DREAM TO
GUIDE US.
A DREAM THEY PAID FOR LIKE OUR
FOUNDERS WITH THEIR LIVES, THEIR
FORTUNES, THEIR SACRED HONOR.
AND WE THANK THEM FOR REMINDING
US THAT AMERICA IS ALWAYS
BECOMING, ALWAYS ON A JOURNEY.
WE ALL, EVERY SINGLE CITIZEN
AMONG US, HAVE TO RUN OUR LAP.
>> Reporter: A THIRD FORMER
PRESIDENT-- GEORGE W. BUSH-- WAS
UNABLE TO ATTEND TODAY, AS HE
RECOVERS FROM A RECENT HEART
PROCEDURE.
INSTEAD, HE ISSUED A STATEMENT
SAYING:
THE MOMENT THAT DR. KING
DELIVERED HIS FAMOUS ADDRESS--
WITH THE APPEAL TO "LET FREEDOM
RING"-- WAS MARKED BY A BELL-
RINGING CEREMONY.
THAT SET THE STAGE FOR THE FIRST
AFRICAN AMERICAN PRESIDENT, WHO
SAID THE STRUGGLE FOR ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY REMAINS THE NATION'S
GREAT UNFINISHED BUSINESS, BUT
HE VOICED HOPE.
THERE'S A REASON WHY SO MANY WHO
MARCHED THAT DAY, AND IN THE
DAYS TO COME, WERE YOUNG-- FOR
THE YOUNG ARE UNCONSTRAINED BY
HABITS OF FEAR, BY THE
CONVENTIONS OF WHAT IS.
THEY DARED TO DREAM DIFFERENTLY,
TO IMAGINE SOMETHING BETTER.
AND I AM CONVINCED THAT SAME
IMAGINATION, THE SAME HUNGER OF
PURPOSE, STIRS IN THIS
GENERATION.
WE MAY NOT FACE THE SAME DANGERS
OF 1963, BUT THE FIERCE URGENCY
OF NOW REMAINS.
WE MAY NEVER DUPLICATE THE
SWELLING CROWDS AND DAZZLING
PROCESSION OF THAT DAY SO LONG
AGO-- NO ONE CAN MATCH KING'S
BRILLIANCE BUT THE SAME FLAME
CAN LIGHT THE HEART OF ALL WHO
ARE WILLING TO TAKE A FIRST STEP
TOWARDS JUSTICE.
I KNOW THAT FLAME REMAINS.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT
CALLED FOR AMERICANS OF ALL
BACKGROUNDS TO TAKE UP THAT
FLAME, INSTEAD OF WAITING FOR
THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT TO LEAD
THE WAY.
>> EVERYONE WHO REALIZES WHAT
THOSE GLORIOUS PATRIOTS KNEW ON
THAT DAY, THAT CHANGE DOES NOT
COME FROM WASHINGTON, BUT TO
WASHINGTON; THAT CHANGE HAS
ALWAYS BEEN BUILT ON OUR
WILLINGNESS, WE THE PEOPLE, TO
TAKE ON THE MANTLE OF
CITIZENSHIP; YOU ARE MARCHING.
THAT'S THE LESSON OF OUR PAST.
THAT IS THE PROMISE OF TOMORROW.
THAT IN THE FACE OF IMPOSSIBLE
ODDS, PEOPLE WHO LOVE THEIR
COUNTRY CAN CHANGE IT.
THAT WHEN MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
OF EVERY RACE AND EVERY REGION,
EVERY FAITH AND EVERY STATION,
CAN JOIN TOGETHER IN A SPIRIT OF
BROTHERHOOD; THEN THOSE
MOUNTAINS WILL BE MADE LOW, AND
THOSE ROUGH PLACES WILL BE MADE
PLAIN, AND THOSE CROOKED PLACES
THEY STRAIGHTEN TOWARDS GRACE;
AND WE WILL VINDICATE THE FAITH
OF THOSE WHO SACRIFICED SO MUCH,
AND LIVE UP TO THE TRUE MEANING
OF OUR CREED, AS ONE NATION,
UNDER GOD, INDIVISIBLE, WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Reporter: THE SOUND OF BELLS
REACHED FAR BEYOND WASHINGTON,
AS WELL TODAY.
NATIONWIDE, THERE WERE
CEREMONIES AT MORE THAN 300
CHURCHES, SCHOOLS AND HISTORICAL
SITES.
COMMEMORATIONS WERE ALSO HELD
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: WATCH SOME OF THE
DAY'S MOST STIRRING PERFORMANCES
AND MOVING SPEECHES, INCLUDING
FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA,
CONGRESSMAN JOHN LEWIS, MARTIN
LUTHER KING JR. III, AND OPRAH
WINFREY.
FIND THOSE ON THE RUNDOWN.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN NOW TO
THE QUESTION OF SYRIA.
JEFFREY BROWN LEADS A DEBATE
OVER OPTIONS FOR THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Brown: THE QUESTION: HOW
SHOULD THE U.S. RESPOND TO
SYRIA'S ALLEGED CHEMICAL WEAPONS
ATTACK?
WE DISCUSS THAT WITH IVO
DAHLDER, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR
TO NATO AND NOW PRESIDENT OF THE
CHICAGO COUNCIL ON GLOBAL
AFFAIRS.
HISHAM MELHEM IS THE WASHINGTON
BUREAU CHIEF OF AL ARABIYA NEWS
CHANNEL.
AND JOHN MEARSHEIMER IS A
PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CHICAGO AND HAS WRITTEN
EXTENSIVELY ON STRATEGIC ISSUES.
IVO DAHLDER, I'LL START WURK
GIVEN THE OPTIONS THE U.S.
DISCUSSED WHAT DO YOU THINK THE
U.S. SHOULD DO?
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT LAID IT
OUT IN THE INTERVIEW WE JUST
SAW.
WE CLEARLY HAVE A CASE IN WHICH
CHEMICAL WEAPONS WERE USED.
I THINK THE EVIDENCE THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS COLLECTED AND
NEEDS TO PRESENT TO THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC AND, INDEED, TO THE
WORLD, DEMONSTRATING THAT THIS
WAS A USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY
THE REGIME SUGGESTS THAT
STANDING STILL AND NOT DOING
ANYTHING REALLY ISN'TAB OPTION.
I THINK WE NEED TO RESPOND WITH
A PUNITIVE STRIKE TO SEND A
MESSAGE TO THE REGIME THAT THIS
KIND OF BEHAVIOR IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
CLEARLY, A FUNDAMENTAL NORM IN
WHICH THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS EFFECTIVELY HAS BEEN
BAND BY THE GENEVA PROTOCOL
SINCE 1925.
SYRIA IS THIS
PROTOCOL.
THAT NORM NEEDS TO BE
REESTABLISHED BY DEMONSTRATING
THIS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE BEHAVIOR
AND ALSO WARNING THE REGIME NOT
TO DO THIS AGAIN.
>> Brown: JOHN MEARSHEIMER, A
LIMITED, PUNITIVE STRIKE?
>> NO, I DISAGREE ALMOST
COMPLETELY WITH WHAT IVO SAID.
I THINK THE UNITED STATES HAS NO
STRATEGIC INTEREST IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE.
OUR CORE STRATEGIC INTERESTS ARE
NOT AT STAKE.
THERE'S NO COMPELLING MORAL CASE
FOR INTERVENING IN SYRIA.
AND VERY IMPORTANTLY, IT'S NOT
CLEAR THAT USING MILITARY FORCE
IS GOING TO DO REQUEST GOOD.
WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS ASKED
WHAT THIS STRIKE IS LIKELY TO
ACCOMPLISH, HE BASICALLY HAD NO
GOOD ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION
SO MY BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THE
UNITED STATES SHOULD WORK
DIPLOMATICALLY TO TRY AND SETTLE
THIS WAR BUT IT SHOULD STAY OUT
MILITARILY TO INCLUDE A LIMITED
STRIKE WITH CRUISE MISSILES.
>> Brown: HISHAM MELHEM, YOU
HAVE ARGUED A LIMITED STRIKE
MIGHT NOT BE ENOUGH.
>> A LIMITED STRIKE, A PUNITIVE
STRIKE THAT WILL WILL KEEP
BASHAR AL-ASSAD IN GOVERNMENT,
MAYBE PETERING A LITTLE BIT, A
STRIKE WITHOUT A BROADER
STRATEGY FOR THE REGION, MIGHT
EMBOLDEN HIM.
MIGHT EMBOLDEN IRAN AND THE
OTHER STATES IN THE REGION WHO
ARE NOT FRIENDLY WITH THE UNITED
STATES.
IT WILL DEMORALIZE THE
OPPOSITION, THE PRO-AMERICAN
OPPOSITION.
IT WILL PLEASE THE IRANIANS.
SO ESSENTIALLY THE PRESIDENT IS
SAYING THIS IS DESIGNED TO
PUNISH, DETER, NOT TO BRING A
CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT IN SYRIA.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE'S TELLING
HIM THERE WILL BE GENEVA, TOO.
THE ADMINISTRATION IS REASSURING
HIM THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE A
SLAP BUT IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
DEADLY.
>> Brown: YOU THINK MORE THAN
A SLAP IS REQUIRED AT THIS
POINT?
>> THE PROBLEM IS I SEE A HUGE
DOWNSIDE TO JUST PUNITIVE ACTION
WITHOUT A LONGER, YOU KNOW,
BROADER STRATEGY.
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT GOING TO
SOLVE ANYTHING.
AND THIS WILL PROLONG THE
CONFLICT, AND I DO BELIEVE THAT
THERE ARE REASONS TO INTERVENE,
BUT IF YOU WANT TO PUT
HUMANITARIAN REASONS ASIDE, IF
YOU ARE NOT INTERESTED IN 23
MILLION SYRIANS AND YOU SAID
CORRECTLY THERE ARE NO STRATEGIC
INTERESTS FOR THE UNITED STATES
IN SYRIA, THERE ARE DEFINITELY
STRATEGIC INTERESTS FOR THE
UNITED STATES IN THE STABILITY
OF THE FIVE REGIONS AROUND SYRIA
THAT HAVE CRUCIAL FOR THE UNITED
STATES.
FOUR HAVE BEEN HISTORICALLY
FRIENDS OF THE UNITED STATES,
TURK EISRAEL, JORDAN, AND
LEBANON.
LEBANON IS THE MOST BRITTAL
AMONG THEM.
IRAQ, IS NOT FRIENDLY, BUT IRAQ
IN THE LAST 10 YEARS, WE SPENT A
HUGE AMOUNT OF BLOOD AND
TREASURE, AND ALL THESE
COUNTRIES ARE BEING AFFECT
NEGATIVELY.
AND YOU DON'T WANT SYRIA TO TURB
INTO ANOTHER AFGHANISTAN ON THE
MEDITERRANEAN.
>> Brown: IVO DAHLDER, A
NUMBER OF ISSUES ON THE TABLE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO A
LIMITED STRIKE IT'S LEGALITY,
THE EFFECTIVENESS AND INTEREST
FOR THE U.S.
> IN TERMS OF THE LEGALITY, THE
U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL WILL
DISCUSS A RESOLUTION THAT
BRITAIN HAS PUT ON THE TABLE.
I EXPECT THAT RUSSIA WILL AGAIN
VETO THAT RESOLUTION.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE USE OF
FORCE IN THESE KINDS OF
CIRCUMSTANCES, WHEN IT IT IS
ABOUT THE INTERNAL BEHAVIOR OF
STATES, THERE IS SUCH A THING AS
THE RESPONSIBILITY THAT
SOVEREIGN STATES HAVE.
THEY HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY TO
BEHAVE IN STEARN WAYS, AND WHEN
THEY FAIL TO DO SO, AND
PARTICULARLY WHEN THERE ARE
STRATEGIC CONSEQUENCES LIKE THE
USE OF WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION AND THE REGIONAL
IMPLICATIONS HISHAM TALKED
ABOUT, IF A LARGE COALITION OF
STATES--
>> Brown: DEFINE THAT BECAUSE
IF THE ARAB LEAGUE DOESN'T GIVE
THE GO-AHEAD--
>> LET'S TAKE THE ARAB LEAGUE,
INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH THAT.
>> DID MEET LARGE, VERY DIVERSE
GROUP OF COUNTRIES, COB DEMED
THOROUGHLY THE USE OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
THEY DIDN'T SAY THERE SHOULDN'T
BE ANY INTERVENTION, LEFT THAT
UP TO OTHERS.
NATO HAS JUST ISSUED A VERY
STRONG STATEMENT BY THE SCENL
THAT THIS KIND OF BEHAVIOR
CANNOT GO UNANSWERED.
AND I THINK THE INTERNAL
COMMUNITY, LARGE NUMBERS OF
NATIONNATIONS ARE STANDING UP AD
SAYING THIS IS THE KIND OF
BEHAVIOR THAT WHILE EVERYTHING
ELSE THAT HAS GONE ON HAS BEEN
UNACCEPTABLE, WHEN IT COMES TO
THE USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS WHEN
PEOPLE ARE BEING GASSED IN THIS
WAY, WHICH WE HAVEN'T SEEN IN
OVER A QUARTER OF A CENTURY,
SOMETHING NEEDS TO BE DONE AND A
STRIKE LIKE THIS IS THE
APPROPRIATE RESPONSE.
>> Brown: JOHN MEARSHEIMER,
WHY ISN'T THAT ENOUGH IF YOU
HAVE THE NATIONS OF THE WORLD
COMING TOGETHER TO SAY THIS
ISN'T RIGHT, THAT CHEMICAL
WEAPOAR
AS WE HEARD THE PRESIDENT SAY?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, YOU DONT
HAVE NATIONS OF THE WORLD COMINT
SANCTIONED AN ATTACK.
YOU CAN'T GET SECURITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
THE RUSSIANS AND THE CHINESE
WILL VETO IT.
AND IN FACT, IF WE DO GO TO WAR,
IT WILL NOT BE A LEGAL WAR.
THIS IS WHY PRESIDENT OBAMA
TALKED ABOUT NORMS AD NAUSEAM IN
HIS COMMENT AND DID NOT TALK
ABOUT INTERNATIONAL LAW BECAUSE
HE KNOWS HE CAN'T DO THIS
LEGALLY.
BUT THE FACT IS THAT THE UNITED
STATES HAS NO VESTED INTEREST IN
WHAT IS GOING ON IN SIR YOO.
THIS IS NOT A STRATEGICALLY
IMPORTANT COUNTRY.
IT'S DEEPLY REGRETTABLE THAT
PEOPLE ARE BEING KILLED.
IT'S DEEPLY REGRETTABLE THAT'S
THERE'S A CIVIL WAR GOING ON,
BUT IT'S NOT THE UNITED STATES'
RESPONSIBILITY TO GET INTO THE
MIDDLE OF IT BECAUSE EVERY TIME
WE DO THIS WE END UP IN A
SITUATION LIKE AFGHANISTAN, A
SITUATION LIKE IRAQ.
WE TAKE A SITUATION THAT'S BAD
AND WE JUST MAKE IT WORSE.
THE IDEA THAT WE HAVE SOME MAGIC
FORMULA THAT CAN FIX THESE
PROBLEMS IS SIMPLY NOT THE CASE.
AND THE HISTORICAL RECORD IS
VERY CLEAR ON THIS.
SO MY BOTTOM LINE IS STAY OUT
MILITARILY, AND DO EVERYTHING
THAT WE CAN TO SHUT IT DOWN
DIPLOMATICALLY.
>> WE LEFT AFGHANISTAN AFTER THE
SOVIET UNION LEFT, RIGHT, AND
LEFT IT TOTS OWN DEVICES AND
WHAT HAPPENED?
THE TALIBAN TOOK OVER AND YOU
HAD A REFUGE PLACE FOR AL QAEDA
AND AL QAEDA VISITED US-- THEY
HAVE ALMOST A MILLION REFUGEES.
LEBANON COULD SNAP AT ANY
MOMENT, TURKEY AND THEIR ALIVES
ARE HAVING SYRIA PROBLEMS, AND
IRAQ IS UNDER TREMENDOUS
PRESSURE FROM IRAN TO ALLOW
VOLUNTEERS TO GO AND FIGHT
THERE.
SYRIA IS GOING TO BE THE BANE OF
THE WORLD ALL EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
FOUGHT ON SPANISH COUNTRIES, AND
THE PRESIDENT TALKS ABOUT A
CIVIL WAR IN THE CONTEXT OF A
GROWING SUNNI-SHIITE DIVIDE.
>> Brown: IVO DAHLDER, IT GOES
TGEB'S QUESTION TO THE PRESIDENT
OF THE AWARENESS OF THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THE ARAB SPRING.
WHAT'S THE SCENARIO NOW, OR EVEN
A WORST-CASE SCENARIO, GIVEN
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN SYRIA WELL,
CLEARLY, WE DO HAVE STRATEGIC
INTERESTS IN WHAT HAPPENS.
THE QUESTION IS ARE THOSE LARGE
ENOUGH FOR TO US HAVE A MAJOR
MILITARY INTERVENTION OF THE
KIND THAT WE HAD IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN?
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT
RIGHTLY HAS CONCLUDED THAT OUR
ENGAGEMENT IN THIS WAY IS NOT
NECESSARILY GOING TO HELP THE
SITUATION ON THE GROUND, AND WE
SHOULD BE ENGAGED IN THAT KIND
OF TURMOIL.
AND TURMOIL THERE WILL BE, AND
THERE WILL BE IN THIS REGION FOR
A WHOLE VARIETY OF REASONS.
BUT WHEN ONE REGIME USES
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THE KINDS OF
WEAPONS THAT WEREN'T USED IN
WORLD WAR II BECAUSE OF THE
HORROR OF THEIR USE IN WORLD WAR
I, THEN-- AND WE CAN PUNISH
THROUGH PUNISHING STRIKES, DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THAT, IN ORDER,
ALSO, TO SEND A MESSAGE DON'T DO
IT AGAIN, THEN I THINK IT IS
INCUMBENT ON THE PRESIDENT AND
THOSE WHO SUPPORT HIM, AT NATO
HAS DONE-- BY THE WAY, NATO--
TURKEY IS A NATO ALLY, A
NEIGHBORING PART OF THE ALIEBS.
THE ARAB LEAGUE DID NOT SAY
DON'T DO IT.
THEY CONDEMNED THE USE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEN HAVING A PUNISHING STRIKE
OF THE KIND THAT THE PRESIDENT
TALKED ABOUT IS THE RIGHT THING
TO DO AT THIS POINT IN TIME.
>> Brown: JOHN MEARSHEIMER, IS
THERE ANY SCENARIO IN WHICH
EITHER IN SYRIA OR A LARGER
ERUPTION IN THE REGION AS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IN WHICH YOU COULD
SEE A STRONGER U..S
RESPONSIBILITY, "A STRONGER
INTEREST?
>> NOT AT THIS POINT IN TIME.
BUT I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT
ALL OF THIS DISCOURSE ABOUT
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BEING SO
SPECIAL IS, I THINK, WRONG.
I THINK IT'S, AGAIN, REGRETTABLE
THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAVE BEEN
USED.
BUT CHEMICAL WEAPONS ARE NOT
WEAPONS OF MAZ DESTRUCTION LIKE
NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE.
THE REASON THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS
WERE NOT USED IN WORLD WAR II
WAS NOT BECAUSE SOMEBODY LIKE
ADOLF HITLER WAS ABOVE USING
THEM FOR MORAL REASONS.
THEY WEREN'T USEDBE THEY
HAVE VERY LITTLE MILITARY
UTILITY.
ANYBODY WHO HAS BEEN IN THE ARMY
KNOWS THAT CHEMICAL WEAPONS JUST
DON'T BUY YOU MUCH ON THE
BATTLEFIELD.
AND IN FACT, THE UNITED STATES
USED NUCLEAR WEAPONS IN WORLD
WAR II.
SO THE NORMS COULD NOT HAVE BEEN
VERY POWERFUL IN THAT WAR.
AND WHAT WE HAVE HERE IN SYRIA
IS A CASE WHERE IT APPEARS THAT
ABOUT 1,000 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
BY CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
BUT I WOULD ESTIMATE THAT
ROUGHLY 40,000 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED BY CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS
BEFORE THESE THOUSANDS PEOPLE
WERE REGRETTABLY KILLED BY
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
I ASK YOU-- WHAT'S THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN KILLING
SOMEBODY WITH SHRAPNEL OR
BULLETS VERSUS KILLING THEM WITH
CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
I DON'T SEE ANY MEANINGFUL
DIFFERENCE.
IF YEAR SPOA CONCERNED ABOUT THE
FACT THAT PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED, WE SHOULD HAVE
INTERVENED A LONG TIME OKAY IN
SYRIA.
AND, OF COURSE, WE DIDN'T
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO GET IN
THE MIDDLE OF THIS SITUATION,
BECAUSE WE HAVE NO WAY TO FIX
IT.
AND THE IDEA THAT CHEMICAL
WEAPONS HAVE SUDDENLY CHANGED
THE NATURE OF THE GAME AND,
THEREFORE, WE SHOULD GET
INVOLVED NOW I THINK IS A
SPECIOUS ARGUMENT.
>> Brown: WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO LEAVE THAT QUESTION AND THIS
DEBATE WILL OF COURSE CONTINUE.
JOHN MEARSHEIMER, KRISTOFER
HELGEN, IVO DAHLDER, TH ALL
THREE.
>> Ifill: NOW, THE OTHER NEWS OF
THE DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: A MILITARY JURY AT
FORT HOOD, TEXAS SENTENCED ARMY
MAJOR NIDAL HASAN TO DEATH,
FOR KILLING 13 PEOPLE AND
WOUNDING MORE THAN 30 IN A 2009
ATTACK.
HE COULD BECOME THE FIRST
AMERICAN SOLDIER TO BE EXECUTED
SINCE 1961.
THE AMERICAN-BORN MUSLIM HAS
SAID HE ACTED TO PROTECT ISLAMIC
INSURGENTS IN IRAQ AND
AFGHANTAN.IS
HE REPRESENTED HIMSELF AT HIS
COURT MARTIAL, BUT OFFERED NO
DEFENSE.
THE NEW YORK CITY POLICE
DEPARTMENT IS FACING NEW
QUESTIONS ABOUT ITS SURVEILLANCE
OF MUSLIMS.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
TODAY THAT SINCE 9/11, THE
DEPARTMENT HAS LABELED AT LEAST
A DOZEN MOSQUES AS TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS.
THE TACTIC ALLOWED OFFICERS TO
SPY ON IMAMS, INVESTIGATE
WORSHIPPERS AND PLANT UNDERCOVER
OFFICERS IN THOSE ORGANIZATIONS,
OFTEN WITHOUT DIRECT EVIDENCE OF
WRONGDOING.
IN IRAQ, COORDINATED CAR
BOMBINGS IN BAGHDAD KILLED AT
LEAST 70 PEOPLE AND WOUNDED SOME
200.
THE CHARRED WRECKAGE OF CARS AND
BUILDINGS LITTERED STREETS.
THE IRAQI CAPITAL AND OTHER
CITIES HAVE SUFFERED A SURGE OF
ATTACKS SINCE APRIL, WITH MORE
THAN 500 PEOPLE KILLED THIS
MONTH ALONE.
IRAN HAS BOOSTED ITS ABILITY TO
ENRICH WEAPONS-GRADE URANIUM,
BUT DELAYED STARTING UP A NEW
NUCLEAR REACTOR.
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY DETAILED THOSE FINDINGS
TODAY.
ITS QUARTERLY REPORT SAID IRAN
NOW HAS 1,008 CENTRIFUGES THAT
CAN SPIN URANIUM GAS INTO HIGH-
GRADE NUCLEAR MATERIAL FOR
REACTORS OR WARHEADS.
AT THE SAME TIME, IRAN SAID A
NEW REACTOR WILL NOT BE READY TO
BEGIN OPERATING IN EARLY 2014,
AFTER ALL.
MORE MOISTURE IN THE AIR HELPED
FIREFIGHTERS IN CALIFORNIA
TODAY, IN THEIR BATTLE AGAINST A
HUGE WILDFIRE ON THE EDGE OF
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK.
THE BLAZE HAS CONSUMED NEARLY
300 SQUARE MILES OF DENSELY
FORESTED TERRAIN IN THE SIERRA
NEVADA MOUNTAIN RANGE OVER
ALMOST TWO WEEKS.
CREWS NOW HAVE MANAGED TO EXTEND
CONTAINMENT LINES AROUND ABOUT
ONE-QUARTER OF THE FIRE'S
PERIMETER.
BROKERAGE GIANT MERRILL LYNCH
HAS AGREED TO THE LARGEST
SETTLEMENT EVER IN A RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION CASE.
LAWYERS FOR SOME 1,200 BLACK
FINANCIAL ADVISERS SAID TODAY
THE PAYOUT WOULD BE $160
MILLION.
THEY'VE ALLEGED A PATTERN OF
BIAS THAT RESULTED IN THEIR
CLITS EENARNING LESS MONEY THAN
WHITE EMPLOYEES.
THE COMPANY DECLINED TO CONFIRM
ANY DETAILS.
WALL STREET MADE UP A LITTLE OF
THIS WEEK'S LOSSES TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 40 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
14,824.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 15 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3,593.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID THE U.S.
HAS CONCLUDED SYRIA DID USE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON CIVILIANS
LAST WEEK.
HE TOLD "THE NEWSHOUR" HE HAS
NOT YET DECIDED HOW TO RESPOND.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
CALLED FOR THE PRESIDENT TO
EXPLAIN TO CONGRESS AND THE
NATION THE RATIONALE FOR ACTING
AGAINST SYRIA.
CONGRESSIONAL AIDES SAID TOP
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS WOULD
BRIEF KEY LAWMAKERS TOMORROW.
AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE CROWDEDH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE WE TAKE A
DIFFERENT LOOK AT THE AMERICAN
DREAM: A KEY FIGURE IN THE
WORKER OWNERSHIP MOVEMENT
REFLECTS ON THE VIABILITY OF
INCLUSIVE CAPITALISM.
FIND THAT ON MAKING SENSE.
THE NATIONAL ZOO IN WASHINGTON
WELCOMED A NEW BABY PANDA CUB
LAST WEEK.
ON SCIENCE WEDNESDAY, WE EXAMINE
WHY IT'S SO DIFFICULT TO MONITOR
PANDA PREGNANCIES, AND WHAT
ADVANCES HELPED VETS BETTER
PREDICT THE BIRTH THIS YEAR.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
BUT BEFORE WE GO A REMINDER
THERE'S SOMETHING NEW COMING
FROM THE NEWSHOUR.
WE LAUNCH THE "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND," ANCHORED BY HARI
SREENIVASAN.
EVERY SATURDAY AND SUNDAY, HARI
WILL TAKE A 30-MINUTE LOOK AT
STORIES FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY
AND AROUND THE WORLD.
LOOK FOR "THE PBS NEWHOUR
WEEKEND" RIGHT HERE, STARTING
SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 7.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.